Complete the custom rules documentation (#6238)
smogon/pokemon-showdown: config/CUSTOM-RULES.md

(There is no `Galar Pokedex` rule, `-Nonexistent` covers it in Gen 8.)

> 

Reviewer: No, this can stay. It's distinct from `Gen 8 Little Cup` which copies all the rules, not just the evo rule.

`Little Cup` - allow only Pokémon that can evolve and aren't evolved

> `Gen 8 STABmons` - allow Pokémon to use almost any move that matches their typing

Reviewer: I'd probably put these in separate sections.

Also I'd probably just note that any tier can be used by name, instead of listing all the tiers.

`OHKO Clause` - ban one-hit KO moves (Fissure, Sheer Cold, etc)

`Evasion Moves Clause` - ban moves that directly boost evasion (Double Team, Minimize)

`Evasion Abilities Clause` - ban abilities that boost evasion (Sand Veil, Snow Cloak)

`Moody Clause` - ban the ability Moody

`Swagger Clause` - ban the move Swagger

`NFE Clause` - ban Pokemon that are fully evolved or can't evolve

> `CFZ Clause` - ban the use of crystal-free Z-Moves

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CFZ Clause` - ban the use of crystal-free Z-Moves (having moves like Devastating Drake hacked directly on the moveset in formats like Hackmons, instead of using Dragon Claw + Dragonium Z)
```

`Inverse Mod` - inverse type effectiveness (like in Gen 6 Inverse Battles)

`Gen 8 Camomons` - Pokémon will change their typing to match their first two moveslots

`Gen 7 Tier Shift` - Pokémon will have higher base stats the lower their Gen 7 Smogon tier is

`Dynamax Clause` - prevent Pokémon from Dynamaxing during battle. Cannot be used to allow Dynamaxing in old gens

`Endless Battle Clause` - prevent battles from proceeding endlessly

`HP Percentage Mod` - Show the opposing Pokémon's HP rounded to the nearest percent, as opposed to a range of percentages based upon the health bar's size in-game

`Exact HP Mod` - Show the opposing Pokémon's HP rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent

`Cancel Mod` - allow players to cancel their moves

`Switch Priority Clause Mod` - make the fastest Pokémon switch first when more than one Pokémon switches out at once, unlike in Emerald link battles, where Player 1's Pokémon would switch first.

Standard Rulesets
-----------------

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Most formats already come with a standard ruleset. To change which one you use in a tournament, you would have to do something like `!Standard, Standard Ubers`.

```

Author: the issues with this are being fixed soon so sure

`Standard` - the standard ruleset for most Smogon singles formats. Includes the Evasion Moves Clause, Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, Nickname Clause, OHKO Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod.

`Standard NEXT` - the standard ruleset for NEXT. Allows some unreleased Pokémon and includes the Evasion Moves Clause, Nickname Clause, Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, OHKO Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod. Bans Soul Dew.

> `Standard Ubers` - the standard ruleset for Gen 5 Ubers. Includes Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, Nickname Clause, Moody Clause, OHKO Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Standard Ubers` - the standard ruleset for Ubers. Includes Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, Nickname Clause, Moody Clause, OHKO Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod.
```

`Standard GBU` - the standard ruleset for in-game formats, such as Battle Spot. Includes Species Clause, Item Clause, Nickname Clause, Team Preview, and Cancel Mod. Bans mythical Pokémon and restricted legendaries (e.g. Zekrom, Reshiram, Zygarde, Eternatus)

`Minimal GBU` - the standard ruleset for in-game formats but without restricted legendary bans. Still bans mythical Pokémon.

`Standard ND` - the standard ruleset for National Dex formats. Allows the National Dex. Includes Nickname Clause, HP Percentage Mod, Cancel Mod, Endless Battle Clause.

`Standard Doubles` - the standard ruleset for most Smogon doubles formats. Includes Species Clause, Nickname Clause, OHKO Clause, Evasion Abilities Clause, Evasion Moves Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, Cancel Mod.

Removing rules
--------------

Put `!` in front of a rule to remove it, like:

`!Team Preview` - do not use Team Preview

You can use this to remove individual parts of rules, like:

`Obtainable, !Obtainable Moves` - require pokemon to be obtained legitimately, except for moves, which they can use whatever

Tiers and Formats
-----------------

> For any Smogon format, there is a corresponding tournament rule. For every tier, there is a corresponding banlist. For formats, use `addedrule, !removedrule`. For tiers, use `+addedtier, -removedtier`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any format (including the generation number) can be used as a rule, to add all rules from that format.

For example:
```

> `gen8ou` - follow the clause list and banlist of Gen 8 OU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Gen 8 OU` - add all clauses and bans from Gen 8 OU.
```

> `-ou, +ubers` - ban all Pokémon currently in OU and unban all Pokémon currently in Ubers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> `Gen 8 Mix and Mega` - follow the Mix and Mega ruleset, allowing almost any Pokémon to Mega Evolve using almost any Mega Stone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Gen 8 Mix and Mega` - follow the Mix and Mega ruleset, allowing almost any Pokémon to Mega Evolve using almost any Mega Stone.

Note that formats and tiers are different. A format is a list of rules for a game you can play, such as "Gen 8 OU". A tier is a list of Pokémon which can be banned or unbanned, such as "OU".

`- OU, + Ubers` - ban all Pokémon currently in OU and unban all Pokémon currently in Ubers
```

`Inverse Mod` - inverse type effectiveness (like in Gen 6 Inverse Battles)

> `Gen 8 Camomons` - Pokémon will change their typing to match their first two moveslots

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`[Gen 8 Camomons]` - Pokémon will change their typing to match their first two moveslots
```

> `Gen 7 Tier Shift` - Pokémon will have higher base stats the lower their Gen 7 Smogon tier is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`[Gen 7] Tier Shift` - Pokémon will have higher base stats the lower their Gen 7 Smogon tier is
```

Reviewer 2: ive been made aware this does not work

`Minimal GBU` - the standard ruleset for in-game formats but without restricted legendary bans. Still bans mythical Pokémon.

`Standard ND` - the standard ruleset for National Dex formats. Allows the National Dex. Includes Nickname Clause, HP Percentage Mod, Cancel Mod, Endless Battle Clause.

`Standard Doubles` - the standard ruleset for most Smogon doubles formats. Includes Species Clause, Nickname Clause, OHKO Clause, Evasion Abilities Clause, Evasion Moves Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, Cancel Mod.

Removing rules
--------------

Put `!` in front of a rule to remove it, like:

`!Team Preview` - do not use Team Preview

You can use this to remove individual parts of rules, like:

`Obtainable, !Obtainable Moves` - require pokemon to be obtained legitimately, except for moves, which they can use whatever

Tiers and Formats
-----------------

Any format (starting with `Gen [number]`) can be used as a rule, to add all rules from that format.

For example:

> `Gen 8 OU` - add all clauses and bans from Gen 8 OU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`[Gen 8] OU` - add all clauses and bans from Gen 8 OU.
```

> `Gen 8 Mix and Mega` - add all rules from Mix and Mega, allowing almost any Pokémon to Mega Evolve using almost any Mega Stone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`[Gen 8] Mix and Mega` - add all rules from Mix and Mega, allowing almost any Pokémon to Mega Evolve using almost any Mega Stone.
```

People often use "tier" to mean "format", but in rulesets, the difference is important. A format is a list of rules for a game you can play, such as "Gen 8 OU". A tier is a list of Pokémon which can be banned or unbanned, such as "OU".

> `- OU, + Ubers` - ban all Pokémon currently in OU and unban all Pokémon currently in Ubers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`-OU, +Ubers` - ban all Pokémon currently in OU and unban all Pokémon currently in Ubers
```

`Dynamax Clause` - prevent Pokémon from Dynamaxing during battle. Cannot be used to allow Dynamaxing in old gens

`Endless Battle Clause` - prevent battles from proceeding endlessly

`HP Percentage Mod` - Show the opposing Pokémon's HP rounded to the nearest percent, as opposed to a range of percentages based upon the health bar's size in-game

`Exact HP Mod` - Show the opposing Pokémon's HP rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent

`Cancel Mod` - allow players to cancel their moves

`Switch Priority Clause Mod` - make the fastest Pokémon switch first when more than one Pokémon switches out at once, unlike in Emerald link battles, where Player 1's Pokémon would switch first.

Standard Rulesets
-----------------

`Standard` - the standard ruleset for most Smogon singles formats. Includes the Evasion Moves Clause, Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, Nickname Clause, OHKO Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod.

`Standard NEXT` - the standard ruleset for NEXT. Allows some unreleased Pokémon and includes the Evasion Moves Clause, Nickname Clause, Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, OHKO Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod. Bans Soul Dew.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

`Standard Ubers` - the standard ruleset for Gen 5 Ubers. Includes Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, Nickname Clause, Moody Clause, OHKO Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod.

`Standard GBU` - the standard ruleset for in-game formats, such as Battle Spot. Includes Species Clause, Item Clause, Nickname Clause, Team Preview, and Cancel Mod. Bans mythical Pokémon and restricted legendaries (e.g. Zekrom, Reshiram, Zygarde, Eternatus)

`Minimal GBU` - the standard ruleset for in-game formats but without restricted legendary bans. Still bans mythical Pokémon.

> `Standard ND` - the standard ruleset for National Dex formats. Allows the National Dex. Includes Nickname Clause, HP Percentage Mod, Cancel Mod, Endless Battle Clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Standard NatDex` - the standard ruleset for National Dex formats. Allows the National Dex. Includes Nickname Clause, HP Percentage Mod, Cancel Mod, Endless Battle Clause.
```

`Standard Doubles` - the standard ruleset for most Smogon doubles formats. Includes Species Clause, Nickname Clause, OHKO Clause, Evasion Abilities Clause, Evasion Moves Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, Cancel Mod.

Removing rules
--------------

Put `!` in front of a rule to remove it, like:

`!Team Preview` - do not use Team Preview

You can use this to remove individual parts of rules, like:

`Obtainable, !Obtainable Moves` - require pokemon to be obtained legitimately, except for moves, which they can use whatever

Tiers and Formats
-----------------

Any format (starting with `Gen [number]`) can be used as a rule, to add all rules from that format.

For example:

`Gen 8 OU` - add all clauses and bans from Gen 8 OU.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

`Inverse Mod` - inverse type effectiveness (like in Gen 6 Inverse Battles)

`Gen 8 Camomons` - Pokémon will change their typing to match their first two moveslots

`Gen 7 Tier Shift` - Pokémon will have higher base stats the lower their Gen 7 Smogon tier is

`Dynamax Clause` - prevent Pokémon from Dynamaxing during battle. Cannot be used to allow Dynamaxing in old gens

`Endless Battle Clause` - prevent battles from proceeding endlessly

`HP Percentage Mod` - Show the opposing Pokémon's HP rounded to the nearest percent, as opposed to a range of percentages based upon the health bar's size in-game

`Exact HP Mod` - Show the opposing Pokémon's HP rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent

`Cancel Mod` - allow players to cancel their moves

`Switch Priority Clause Mod` - make the fastest Pokémon switch first when more than one Pokémon switches out at once, unlike in Emerald link battles, where Player 1's Pokémon would switch first.

Standard Rulesets
-----------------

Most formats already come with a standard ruleset. To change which one you use in a tournament, you would have to do something like `!Standard, Standard NatDex`.

> `Standard` - the standard ruleset for most Smogon singles formats. Includes the Evasion Moves Clause, Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, Nickname Clause, OHKO Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Standard` - the standard ruleset for most Smogon singles formats. Includes the Evasion Moves Clause, Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, Nickname Clause, OHKO Clause, Endless Battle Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod.
```

You accidentally added a trailing space.

> `Standard NEXT` - the standard ruleset for NEXT. Allows some unreleased Pokémon and includes the Evasion Moves Clause, Nickname Clause, Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, OHKO Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod. Bans Soul Dew.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Standard NEXT` - the standard ruleset for NEXT. Allows some unreleased Pokémon and includes the Evasion Moves Clause, Nickname Clause, Sleep Clause Mod, Species Clause, OHKO Clause, HP Percentage Mod, and Cancel Mod. Bans Soul Dew.

```
